To help simplify the process of maturing an organization's cybersecurity program,
the NIST Computer Security Resources Center or CSRC,
created the Cyber Security Framework,
also known as CSF,
that can be applied to any type of organization no matter its size, sector, or type.
Any US federal agencies or contractors are required to follow the NIST CSF.
We found that many non-government organizations also follow it to be compliant with
an industry standard and reduce the risks of a security violation or a data breach.
This section will help you recognize each of the components of the NIST CSF.
The NIST CSF helps organizations identify,
manage, and assess their cyber risks.
It has three main parts.
The core, which is an easy-to-understand set of cybersecurity goals.
Implementation tiers are how an organization
manages their cybersecurity risks and profiles,
which is a list of the organization's unique requirements,
objectives, risk tolerance, and resources.
Just as maturity is important for human growth,
we need it for IT and cybersecurity.
More mature means less effort and time and greater protection.
The framework tiers describe how
an organization functions as it relates to cybersecurity technology,
management, and operational practices.
The CSF tiers range from partial tier
1 and describe an increasing degree of maturity in their cybersecurity program.
For example, a company just starting a cybersecurity program with
a lot of procedures or technologies would be tier 1 or partial.
A company with advanced cybersecurity program that can quickly adapt to
new situations and efficiently make cybersecurity risk decisions would be tier 4.
Where does your organization fall in these tiers?
How mature are they?
You'll be able to understand organizational maturity by the end of this course.
The CSF core is an underlying structure of
a mature security program organized into high-level functions and categories.
This is like an architectural drawing for a house,
showing how a security program can be built.
It's designed to be easy to use,
allowing a common language between the security team,
IT, and business leaders.
The core consists of three parts;
functions, categories, and subcategories.
The core includes five high-level functions: Identify,
protect, detect, respond, and recover.
The categories fit within each function and give
direction on security controls, implementation, and management.
The last part of the NIST CSF triad are organizational profiles.
These are basically the road map for your security program.
We use profiles to understand where we need to improve
our cybersecurity programs by comparing a current profile with a target profile.
It's like that road map where you are now to where you want to go.
Your profile is a written explanation of your organizations,
unique requirements, objectives, risk tolerance, and resources.
It shows where you are versus where you need to improve.
The NIST CSF tiers, core,
and profile provide direction on implementing
a compliance security program that manages its cybersecurity risks to acceptable levels.